Hello everybody and welcome to find component by class.
So we're gonna find out what it does and how to use it to find attached components.
We will be introducing angle brackets for generics.
We will use non pointer to initialize our pointers and we will log a useful error as we've done in some
of the other lectures.
If the component isn't attached specifically a physics handle.
Okay so because we're going to use a physics handle in a few lectures time let's use it as an example
as to what we're going to add as a component.
So let's go ahead and open up our default poem blueprint put mine in my blueprints folder and I'll double
click on that.
Now yours might not open up like this if it looks a bit different there's probably something you can
click along sort of like this top middle area here which will bring you to this screen and if you go
up to add component we've got a lot of options now instead of just searching for it let's scroll down
to just see the breadth of what there is here and eventually we'll get down to where we've got our physics
handle component and we hover over it's a utility object for moving physics objects around.
That sounds perfect to what we want.
Just go ahead and double click that and it will add it to our default porn.
So the default porn now has that extra physics handle on it as well as the grabber that we've added
as well.
Let's go ahead and compile and save.
Now we're going to in a moment refer to the physics handle whilst we're in our grabber code.
Now it does mean that we will also whatever the grab is on it must also have a physics handle on.
But that's okay.
We'll make sure that's the case by writing an error if it's not.
Okay.
So with those all set up let's go over to V.S. code.
So let's go over to our header file and we've got our private members just here.
Let's go further down now in order to find the new physics handle we can employ fuzzy search.
All we could go and have a look at the documentation itself.
So I know some people perhaps on X code the fuzzy search might not work as well.
Plus I think we also need to hash include something.
Mm hmm.
Well let's go and have a look for the you physics handle and see what we need to include.
Okay.
So searching online are you physics handle component found that's in the unreal docs.
We scroll down here we can see that we've got to include hash physics engine physics handle components.
I'm going to go ahead and grab that.
Go back to our code C.C. and let's place under here.
Now when we go ahead and start typing you physics handle component.
There we go.
So that's all type.
And we want a pointer to it.
So we need the asterisk there and let's call that's just simply physics handle.
And then I'm going to initialize that to a null PCR or null pointer that ensures that we're not going
to have any issues because otherwise if one isn't on our component and it's not set to a null pointer
it will probably just crash on real P T.
Ah there we go.
So we're pointing it's a null pointer right now because in the very beginning let's go over to unravel
when we're constructing this object.
We won't know whether the physics handle has spun up yet before the grabber has so that will just protect
us against some random crashes.
So if we go back to our code in the implementation on begin play we're going was begin play up here.
Okay we're going to check for the physics handle component.
Okay.
So how are we going to do that on a new line.
Let's go ahead and bring up how physics handle.
Now we know that that if we hover over it as well is a pointer to a new physics handle component and
we're going to set it so.
Well first of all let's have a look at how things are arranged.
So at the moment we're within grabber.
So if we go ahead.
How do how do we get the relationship.
What's the commonality with our physics handle.
Well if we get the owner which is the default pawn then we can start looking for the physics handle
itself.
That's the only relationship is that they both have the same owner.
So we're going to get owner and because it's a pointer we will use the arrow operator and then we need
to find component by class.
Now fortune has come at the top there but just bear in mind there may be other things that are named
very similarly.
So here we go find component by class now there is something slightly different now because this is
a function template we're going to be using an angled brackets or a Chevron depending on what you want
to call it.
And within these angle brackets is where we will specify the class that we're looking for.
So in this case it's going to be you physics handle component.
Let's let that auto complete.
And it will return the first component found and then you do need some brackets at the end just like
normal.
Okay.
So this works because we're getting the owner and then we find a component by its class and there's
only one physics handle component on there.
So we'll initialize the physics handle.
Now of course the physics handle itself is a new physics handle components of the types match there
that is important.
See how that's all linking together okay.
So when you've done something like that it could be quite dangerous to just assume that it has worked.
I could have made a typo or many many other things that still allows it to compile but it will result
in a crash.
So immediately afterwards we can go if physics handled in very much the same way we did down here with
the actor hit it helps protect us as a clue as to what might be coming up for your challenge.
Now in this particular case we do not need any code in here.
This is just to protect us but we can go else and this is where we line up for your challenge so your
challenge I'd like you to logon era if no physics handle is present.
So we're going to log at Aero verbosity so it's going to start to get a bit more serious with our error
codes.
If no component is found right an error that helps the reader fix the issue that's always important
put in the area as much detail as is necessary to help identify things find and include the name of
the object that's also critical.
Otherwise we won't know what the error refers to.
In this case it's going to be our default porn the other thing I'd like you to do is also clean up any
of the other things that we're no longer using.
So whilst you're in there I don't think we need any position reporting and instead of just deleting
or altering the code within anything that's got the position reporter on it I would just remove that
component from any objects in our scene at the moment.
Paul's video now and give that's a go Okay everybody Welcome back.
Let's go ahead and log our era.
Okay so a couple of things here.
I think we should add a little bit of a comment here especially as when you just say that the physics
handle is found.
It's as simple as that.
We don't need to output anything but it just says Why we've left that blank.
I think that's important right at the beginning.
Okay.
So here what are we going to say.
Okay so let's log this out.
You a log and then it's going to be a log temp tempers normal and the verbosity Well we've said here
is going to be an error.
Okay let's then say what it is.
That's wrong.
So what are we going to say here.
No physics handle found on percentage.
S So we've said oh no physics handle let's say a component as well let's be more specific found on percentages.
Exclamation mark.
Okay.
Let's put the semicolon on the end.
So first of all asterisk and then we are going to get owner and of course that's a pointer so we're
going to use our arrow operator and then we can go ahead and get name and of course that is going to
return an F string which is exactly what we're looking for.
And it will be passed into here.
Okay.
Let's go ahead and save our file and go over into on real.
So let's go ahead over into our scene here compile our code w few moments and then what we'll do is
we'll play check the logs and then we'll remove the physics handle.
We'll press play again see if it reports the error.
Okay so the compiler is complete.
If we go ahead and press play and have a look in the output log okay we've got a series of things here
that I think we can clean up now.
And also when we're looking at it I want to change that to yellow in a moment as well rather than leaving
it as red.
So that seems to be working.
Let's go ahead.
I'm gonna right click here and clear the log.
So some nice fresh log and then we go to my default pawn and remove the physics handle.
I'm going to compile and save should be very quick to do.
Now when we press play we should have an error and we don't.
So I am just going to press compile again because has I've experienced in the past occasionally when
you think you've got everything working and a real doesn't behave or behaves exactly like it did before.
Well let's try it now.
Here we go.
So that was exactly the issue.
So no physics handle component found on the default porn BP.
And then it's got some suffixes on the end of it there.
Okay so let's go ahead and tidy up the rest of this stuff okay.
Let's find where we've got our log here.
That's not going to be an error anymore the actor hit.
I'm going to make that a warning so it's just a different color.
It's not an error.
I don't think there's anything else being logged out here is there grabber reporting for duty.
We know it's working and let's go up and here is at the top of begin play.
I'm just going to delete that.
We know that the grabber is working and it's in our scene and everything else so that's fine.
The other thing to do is on some of our objects in our scene in fact what objects was it it was cube
two and spear five have a position in the world.
Well it's come out select that and well the sphere first of all and well position let's go ahead and
remove that and we can do the same with our cube as well we will remove world position.
Okay so both of those are gone.
The only other thing that I wants to do here is when we press play grab a reporting for duty that will
disappear the moment that we've re compiled.
I think we're good.
So let's recompile.
Excellent.
Let's press play everything else is gone.
We've hit the cube we've hit the cone yet.
That's all working as I'd expect it to.
Excellent.
How did you guys get on.
And before I forget I'm going to quickly go back into my default pawn blueprint and add back onto it.
The physics and or otherwise I'm going to forget on site and then wonder why something's not working
later on.
Okay so that's it for this lecture and I'll see you all in the next one.